# MODEL0912160004: Shorten2007_SkeletalMuscleFatigue

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL0912160004.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL0912160004.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This a model from the article:  
**A mathematical model of fatigue in skeletal muscle force contraction.**   
Shorten PR, O'Callaghan P, Davidson JB, Soboleva TK. _J Muscle Res Cell Motil_
2007;28(6):293-313 [18080210](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18080210) ,  
**Abstract:**   
The ability for muscle to repeatedly generate force is limited by fatigue. The
cellular mechanisms behind muscle fatigue are complex and potentially include
breakdown at many points along the excitation-contraction pathway. In this
paper we construct a mathematical model of the skeletal muscle excitation-
contraction pathway based on the cellular biochemical events that link
excitation to contraction. The model includes descriptions of membrane
voltage, calcium cycling and crossbridge dynamics and was parameterised and
validated using the response characteristics of mouse skeletal muscle to a
range of electrical stimuli. This model was used to uncover the complexities
of skeletal muscle fatigue. We also parameterised our model to describe force
kinetics in fast and slow twitch fibre types, which have a number of
biochemical and biophysical differences. How these differences interact to
generate different force/fatigue responses in fast- and slow- twitch fibres is
not well understood and we used our modelling approach to bring new insights
to this relationship.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Shorten PR, O'Callaghan P, Davidson JB, Soboleva
TK. (2007) - version02** ](http://www.cellml.org/models/shorten_ocallaghan_dav
idson_soboleva_2007_version02)

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


